We have already done a few simple programs using formulas or expressions.
We have already use arithmetic operators.
We have a lot of other operators to learn so slowly you'll be learning about them.
Now.
We will learn about compound assignment operators.
These are related to arithmetic as well as other operators also.
So let us understand what these are and when they are useful.
See already I have listed the compound assignment operators so this you can see this, plus assign minus
assigned.
So the operators coming before the assignment. usually the expression or  all the operator will be
after the assignment ut here it is coming before the assignment.
So when it is useful let us see.
For that I have taken one example here I have some variables ABC which are having some values and sum
is also there which is having some value.
Now the first thing I want to add sum and a and store the result in sum itself.
So let us see how we can do that.
I want to add sum, sum is how much? five then a how much a is? 10
Then this will be five plus 10.
That is 15 when I want to stored? in sum only, so assign sum, so this means this will be added and the result
will be stored in sum now sum becomes how much, 15.
Right now sum is 5.
So sum becomes 15.
So these type of statements are commonly used in programming not now in the coming sections you will
find them.
So right now we are learning about this operator so that we can use them whenever we require
now we will see the same statement can be written using compound assignment.
OPERATOR Let us see this.
See here in this expression we find a variable sum is used on the right hand side of assignment as well as
left hand side of assignment. when it is appearing on the both side.
It means that this result is added with sum and this result is stored in sum. so the value of a is added
And result is stored in sum
So the same thing can be written like this sum plus assign a.
So instead of writing like this we can write it like this.
What is the benefit.
The first benefit this is easily readable.
See for a beginner it is not readable but when you are writing C++ programming you get used to then
it is easy for understanding that.
Okay the result on the right hand side is added with sum and the results are stored in sum and
the second thing.
This operation will be faster than this one because one more thing this operation will be a little faster
than this one internally compiler will make it faster.
So this a statement is faster.
Now next thing I will show you one more expression in that I'll give you a more clear idea where this
type of statements are useful.
I want to add sum A B and C together and store the result in sum again so I will write the expression sum plus A plus
B plus C and I want to store the result in sum so it means all these things are added along with the
sum and the result is a stored to sum.
This is in a single statement.
No I want to break it in multiple statements means a repeated addition i want to do, first,
A then B then C.
So let us see how we can do that.
So first of all let us add a instead of this I'm writing another method see sum assign sum plus a SO
a is added with sum that is result is stored in sum now how much sum will be. Right
Now sum is 5 and a is 10.
So sum becomes 15 next statement.
Sum assign sum plus B.
So right now sum is 15 and then add B to it.
That is 5.
So this becomes twenty.
Then again sum assign sum plus C so sum is right now twenty and plus C is the 15 so sum becomes 35.
So this is done in steps so sometimes in our programs that is incoming sections we will see that we
have planned multiple values one by one.
So in such situations we use this type of operator.
That is a compound assignment.
So the same thing I can write it like this now sum plus assign a and sum plus assign b sum plus assign
C so.
So these same statements are done like this now.
So instead of writing all of them I have broken them to give you the idea how this component assignment
operators use.
So if you have to add more than one elements one by one that is repeatedly I have add then we can go
for this actually we need the statement like this same statement can be written like this.
This gives more meaning and the faster in C++ so this example I have given it only for addition but
it can be done for subtraction multiplication division for all these and these are bit wise operators
we have not seen them.
We look at them in the coming videos. so for
bit wise operates also we have compound assignment operators, now we take one more example for multiplication
and I will show you.
Now here I have a variable called product which is having value 1, I want to multiply a b c and also
with product and store the result in product.
So this can be written as product product multiplied by a multiplied by B multiplied by C suppose i want
like this then the same thing can also be done like this product multiplied assign a into B into C so
this means that multiply all these and multiply the result with the product also and store the result in
product.
So the same statement can be written like this.
Now if you want to break it into multiple statements you can break them.
So that's all about this compound assignment operator I have shown you just arithmetic operators
other operators are also there.
We may be using these operators in our program  where ever required.
So right now there are no example programs on this one but just I will show you that demonstration for
this compound assignment operators in the next video.
So that's all.